[(<Hit {'casts': 'Kurt Kreuger,Faye Marlowe,Richard Conte', 'content': 'A carnival mind reader (Faye Marlowe) hires a private eye (Richard Conte) to find her sister, missing for years.', 'directors': 'Robert D. Webb', 'genres': ' Mystery & thriller', 'id': '9613', 'release_date': '', 'reviews': ['The Spider was a poor remake of the 1931 film of the same title. Original Score: C-'], 'runtime': ' 1h 1m', 'title': 'Spider'}>, 'tomato'), ({'casts': 'Ralph Fiennes,Miranda Richardson,Gabriel Byrne', 'content': 'A mentally disturbed man takes residence in a halfway house. His mind gradually slips back into the realm created by his illness, where he replays a key part of his childhood.', 'directors': 'David Cronenberg', 'genres': 'Drama,Mystery,Thriller', 'id': '9613', 'rating': 6.8, 'release_date': '2002', 'reviews': [['This is one of the most amazing films I have ever viewed, and the reflection of this story has lingered on my mind in an enthralled fashion, the events are ingeniously put together and leaves you reflecting on the cause events and issues that have afflicted and affected the poor long suffering person.Lord Nigel Dawe', "6,9...I think this is a very low score for this movie.So, I give a 10 for the story and also for Ralph's acting.It is incredible to see Spider in his foray in the past...maybe is a little hard to understand what really want to do this man with all this memories, what is real and what is imagination??? First, you can think this man is invisible,then you can see... behind the child is hiding an ghost of the future... I guess it didn't count what really happened, but it counts the feelings, the fear, the obsessions...So, I recommend this movie like a inside story of the hunted soul...", "As I woke up, this film was part way through on BBC2 and I was instantly gripped. A man with mental problems lives in a half-way house in seedy, depressing east end London. As the action unfolds we are puzzled:- the man sees himself as a boy, his mother and father argue, his father goes to the pub at the end of the street, there are are three 'tarts', one of whom appears to be... his mother. What's going on here? Well, we are seeing a view through the mind of Spider, a man suffering from schizophrenia. There is a gap between the past and the present but the two are intertwined... The portrayal of grimy post-war working-class London is uncanny. It reminds me of trips there as a child.Stark, slow, unnerving, upsetting, confusing, disjointed, 'Spider' is unlike most films made in recent years, it doesn't adhere to the standard Hollywood scriptwriting formulae, it doesn't try to entertain. Sadly not all viewers will have the vision to appreciate 'Spider' but it really is a superb piece of cinema.", 'Spider moves like few other movies, you could say the move walks as Its own main character, \nThe plot here, is thin of action, a schizophrenic man, goes to a half-way house in the neighborhood he used to live. In the meantime he writes and remembers the things he lived in the past, showing the story of his family and its final tragic ending. In many ways, it is Spider who webs the plot of the story; it is amazing to see the work of Cronenberg, as he blends the movie and the character together. The acting of all actors are incredible, specially Ralph Fiennes and Miranda Richardson. Miranda does an amazing job fooling us, or at least, confusing us, almost to the very ending.A courageous and interesting portray of a person with schizophrenia, but of language and the possibilities of cinema, besides being an amazing work of everyone involved.', "Patrick McGrath is a fine writer of bizarre, beyond the edge stories and finally someone has found the courage to tackle one of his basically 'inner mind' stories. SPIDER dates back to 1991, before McGrath wrote ASYLUM, DR HAGGARD'S DISEASE, BUTCHER BOY, MARTHA PEAKE etc and that story showed all the promise of the author's ability to find entry into the dark interstices of the ill mind, a line of detail he continues to follow and expand.David Cronenberg, that master of the macabre, was the absolute right director to transpose this map (read 'web') of the schizophrenic mind to film. His cast is impeccably correct: Ralp Fiennes manages to create a three dimensional character out of the title role, while Miranda Richardson, Lynn Redgrave, and Gabriel Byrne and all the bit players feel fully in character at all times. The grisly story is beautifully photographed and meticulously scored (a very finely orchestrated score by Howard Shore) and if at times the film feels longer than the usual movie, realize that this is the way a disturbed and immobile brain deals with the outside world.For the story read the other reviews. For your edification, buy or rent this amazingly disturbing film and keep your mind open.......Note: watching this little masterpiece of a film three years later only serves to increase appreciation of the work of Cronenberg, Howard Shore, Ralph Fiennes, Mirana Richardson, Gabriel Byrne, and Lynn Redgrave. Knowing the story both from the book and form the film seen before enhances the experience of watch the child Dennis Cleg 'Spider' (Bradley Hall) morph into the adult patently disturbed beyond repair adult. And the respect for the performances of John Neville and Gary Reineke as the fellow 'inmates' in Mrs. Wilkinson's home as well as the psychiatrist played by Philip Craig only grows. This is an exceptional film, and doubtless will become a cult classic. Grady Harp, March 2012", "I must admit that I had expected something completely different, remembering Cronenberg previous works. But I must also say that after this work, any other future and past movie can only melancholy disappear. None should miss the perfection of Spider's life reconstruction (so slow, anguish and deliberately fragmented), the characters' exchanges created by the visions of a problem child's confused brain and the final revelation of the real events. Unique.", '"Spider" weaves a web of such width and breadth that it eventually evolves into a dramatic murder mystery, spinning out from one delicately ill man\'s mind.  The labyrinth which is woven is surprising, shocking, and bleakly dark.  The constant apparent monotone feeling is overridden by unforeseen events.  This movie does not give itself away easily, nor should it. Ralph Fiennes is simply at his very finest hour in this film.  Miranda Richardson is extraordinary and fascinating.  Gabriel Byrne - what an aware actor! Stupendous cast, overall. Be prepared for more than the usual in thought-provoking movie-making. This is not a glossy, superficial movie.  Every movement, line, camera angle, and cut, appear to be done as if by genius. It flows amazingly perfectly for such a rough, tough, and abysmal in mood film.', "I won't summarize the plot, as for me a good bit of the enjoyment of this film was that I had to spend ALL of it wondering just what in the #^@* was going on.An amazing depiction of a seriously mentally ill man. Ralph Fiennes is astounding in the title role. Even after watching the interview with him, I cannot reconcile the face he wore in the role with his everyday face. Gabriel Byrne, Lynn Redgrave, John Neville are all masters of their craft, and have never been better than in this film.But it is Miranda Richardson who impressed me the most. Suffice to say that I was clueless until I read the credits. I immediately sat thru the whole movie again, this time with my jaw wide open that one woman could possibly have that much talent.If you like good acting, this film is for you.David Cronenberg directs with a light touch, the same you would use to help a man like Spider, without making him feel threatened. The result is staggering. As he says himself, this is an existential film. It is moody, somber, tense... and always compelling. Realistic lighting (thank Bob!), gritty sets, gorgeous cinematography and a top-notch score (by the excellent Howard Shore) make this so technically well constructed it's hard to believe they also found a way to put so much ART in this film.And for that last bit, no small amount of credit must be due to Patrick McGrath, who adapted his own novel for the screen. I have yet to read the novel (don't worry, I'll find a copy), but this is his story, and its got a depth and maturity and sadness to it that I know must have come from him. Good job.This is a powerfully emotional film that requires quite a bit of thought to watch and understand and appreciate. For those who are able, this film will leave a lasting impression.This is film as it was meant to be.Bo", "First, let me help people who still want to see this movie, but aren't too sure after reading all the comments posted here, whether this is their kind of movie or not. I myself agree with everyone who says this work is nothing short of a masterpiece, but I can understand that this is not a movie for everyone. It is an intelligently contrived movie with beautiful camera work, bleak and haunting scenery, great acting, great and misleading directing, slow pacing, and a very intense overall atmosphere. Does the above mean anything to you and did you like movies such as Mamoru Oshii's Avalon and The Coen brother's The Man Who Wasn't There, then this might be the right kind of movie for you and I advise to make sure you don't read too much about it beforehand, because it is more interesting when you don't know what to expect. I knew nothing about it, and therefore was fully prepared to be misled and manipulated as a viewer. If all the above means nothing to you, please don't watch the movie, and if you still wish to do so, don't come here and complain if you don't like it. This is simply a high quality movie like we only see a few each year, and undeniably a great work of art. So if you don't like it, it is not because it is a bad movie, but it is simply a matter of taste and the inability to recognise certain aspects of the film. Secondly, and this part contains ***spoilers*** so I advise anyone who still has to see the movie not to read on, I want to say something about how I experienced this movie. I was dead tired when I started this movie, but within ten minutes I was sucked into it and feeling quite awake again. And perhaps because I was tired I was more easily misled but I still think it had a lot to do with the great directing by Cronenberg and the brilliant work of the actors. For instance: I didn't know Miranda Richardson played two parts in the movie, and I only found out after I finished the movie and saw the end credits and then additionally read some comments here. Incredible, the roles of the mother and the mistress of his father are so differently portrayed that I never noticed that it were both the same actress, partly due of course to good costumes and make-up, but mainly to her performance.Another example: The owner of the halfhouse, where Spider stays is Miss Wilkinson. Then you don't see her for quite a while, but you learn that the mistress of the father is also called Wilkinson, and you start wondering if this might be the same person. When the owner of the halfhouse is reintroduced she looks like an older version of his fathers mistress, and since it has been quite a while since you've seen her I didn't notice that it was a completely different actor all together. But the role is played exactly the same and it got me wondering if this movie was all about Spider meeting up with someone out of his past who had something to do with the traumatic experience that had made Spider what he is today.And I could go on mentioning other examples. Not knowing what subject the movie was going to be about, I was completely misled into creating a completely different story than the one that was lying underneath. While piecing together all the pieces of the puzzle, I as a viewer was manipulated into trying to find one kind of story from the perspective of Spider, while at the same time the real story was craftly hidden underneath and revealed in the twisting end. And looking back in retrospective you see that it all fits. All the points where I was led on, and fooled into believing the other story, and all the points where I had the feeling there was something odd going on, come together in the real story of spider. The story you've really been watching for the past one-and-a-half hours. incredibly well done. and I could probably go on for hours talking about this movie and what i loved about it but maybe it is just sufficient to say: I gave it 10 out 10 as a rating.", 'From the opening frames of the credits, the church hymn, the Rorschach prints and the measured and precise pacing of them, we are entering a world of a severely disengaged man, who has had the spectre of schizophrenia as his constant companion, both in his waking and sleeping hours.  The mumblings and rememberances of Dennis Clegg (Ralph Fiennes)combine to make for a journey down Memory Lane that is unlike any that rational, thinking people would care to take, let alone inhabit and from which there is very little chance of escape.Fiennes spends the length of the film attempting to piece together bits and pieces of times past in his childhood, that may or may not have happened.  The prize in this herculanean effort is not so much to discover the unseemly goings on of his father, but rather seeking a discourse into the inner workings of Clegg\'s mind and what it potentially holds and abandons at will.Dennis Clegg has been released into the care of a matron (Lynn Regrave) in a halfway house in a decaying, dying section of London, that has become the home, heart and soul for others of his ilk; the mentally disabled, discharged from the asylum, but not quite ready for habitation in the outside world at large.  His lodgings represent the underbelly of a netherworld that caters to no one and where rehabilitation is a foreign word,absent from the vocabulary of those in charge.Redgrave plays Mrs. Wilkinson, the spawn of Nurse Ratchet, with a demeanor as cold as the grave and as uncaring as any you are likely to see.  Hers is a job, nothing more, nothing less; an automaton in the flesh.  John Neville (teamed again with Fiennes.  He was in "Sunshine.") as Terrance,another resident of the house, has etched a character who sums up the medicated and serene patient seen as a non-threat to the establishment, but who attempts to warn Clegg of the "queenly" attitudes of Wilkinson and the powers she holds.  This British character actor\'s small part in this film is a gem deserving of recognition.Every movement that Clegg makes is guaranteed to bear witness to a recollection and to focus on events as perceived in his ever crumbling mind.  Once his journey into neverland begins, we are brought along ever so slowly so that we capture these moments precisely and without seeing error.  We learn that his mother, as played by Miranda Richardson, had nicknamed him "Spider" and it is through his newly gained name that his mannerisms take on the skin of the animal.  Each newly remembered facet of his world is honed on the impressions of a spider web -- the string, broken glass, the jigsaw puzzle, the string game he plays at the kitchen table -- spiraling and spinning the child and the man into its deadly web and further from reality as we know it.Richardson portrays three multi-faceted characters in this film, three spirits, and with each one she sheds a skin and grows another, entirely different in bearing and manner.  It is a tour de force performance. Gabriel Bryne as Bill Clegg is dark and daunting, shown as a family man bored and tired with the mundance existance that is his life. Or is he?The performance of Bradley Hall as the young Spider is eerie and precisely on the money.  You can feel a kindred spirit between his child Spider and the adult that he is to become in Ralph Fiennes.The best has been saved for last and that honour belongs to Ralph Fiennes.  His Spider is haunted and haunting, gritty and realistic. This crumbling vestige of a man has been finely honed and not once did I think that I was watching a "performance" but rather as true a representation of a schizophrenic as one is able to command.  It is not a glamour role or a safe role, not a trace of "pretty boy" about it and thank god, none attempting to project itself from the proceedings!  Fiennes, who is known for the research he puts into his roles, has scored all aces with this one.Another added plus is that Hollywood has not managed to ruin a good thing -- a film that truly makes one THINK about what they have just seen.  I cannot help but put another role as a schizophrenic into play -- that of Russell Crowe in "A Beautiful Mind."  When you see these two films and attempt to add the similarities, about the only one that comes to mind IS the fact that schizophrenics are being represented and nothing more. Fiennes has left, for all intents and purposes, Crowe\'s portrayal in the dust, and if Hollywood has any guts come Oscar nomination time, they will credit a true acting triumph, rather than the orchestrated ones that usually win because of huge studio mounted pushes.  "Spider" is the little film that could, did and should."Spider" is not an easy film to watch, but then seeing madness never is.  There are those who will be turned off by it, or perhaps momentarily subjected to moments of quiet.  Then again, others will cheer a peformance that is worthy of the accolade, "a job very well done indeed! BRAVO!"  Cronenberg, as director, has launched a film that is as subdued and unassuming as a breath of air as it brushes past a cheek.  The hollow streets, the absence of crowds and the delicate renderings of cast and crew alike, have conveyed a dream or as some would insist, a nightmare and forsaken a Hollywood beginning, middle and end.I sincerely hope that "Spider" is not lost in the shuffle of films that will spill forth over the course of the spring, or be considered as "too arthouse" to warrant consideration by other than those who know absolute talent when it is put in front of them.  This film is not "entertainment" per se, and that would be the wrong word to use.  Rather, eye opening and thought provoking would be a more apt description.  It\'s a step on the edge of the abyss and the eventual and catastrophic conclusion that must become Spider\'s reality.It is minimalist and daring and I can\'t say strongly enough how much this ensemble cast has brought forth for our inspection. See this film and be amazed at it in all its consummate glory!', '"Spider" is probably Cronenberg\'s most low key film; out have gone the blood, guts and mutation, resulting in his common theme of "body" horror being translated into a completely psychological issue as the titular character\'s past, present and imagination all dangerously coincide in chilling fashion.Everything is played to perfection here. Cronenberg\'s direction gives one of the bleakest depictions of London seen in many a year. The locations visited by Spider as a child and a man are so expertly filmed that the two realities also begin to merge in the viewers\' mind to the same extent. It is also impossible to overstate Fienne\'s performance. He barely utters a word, and even in the initially corkscrew depiction of his mind he still manages to create sympathy for his strange plight. He is practically matched by Hall his child counterpart, and Byrne tackles a difficult role (and accent) effortlessly, but Richardson probably gives the most pivotal performance(s). The reason for her duel role may be hard to grasp until the film has been viewed and assessed; yet even on the surface she creates such heavily contrasting characters that it is difficult to comprehend that it is the same person beneath the make up.It is without a doubt a "must watch twice" film, not for some cheap Shyamalan-ism, but because it is so difficult to decipher the first time. Yet, due to the skill of everyone involved, this doesn\'t hamper how effective it is the first time. The plot being unravelled is merely a bonus; this is pure cinematic art. Visually it is just as effective at showing the collapse and collision of two realities, and when you can get the full message watching the film with the sound off you know you are dealing with a true master of cinema.Without a doubt one of Cronenberg\'s finest and most unmissable films.', "This film kept me totally engaged during every single second. The acting was no less than you would expect from such a talented cast - brilliant performances from all. Ralph Fiennes is just superb. Gabriel Byrne in probably the most difficult role of his career to date keeps the `secret' to the end.  John Neville and Lynn Redgrave, provide the supporting roles with a flare that never upstages the lead actors. Bradley Hall as the Boy Spider gave a fine performance as only child actors can. But it was the Chalk and Cheese characters play by Miranda Richardson that for me stole the show and clearly shows how deep her talents run.The script, adapted by the author of the book, was powerful without going over the top and was very authentic. Even throwaway lines by supporting actors had meaning and helped convey the power and momentum of this masterpiece `.. seven packets of Crisps and a packet of Embassy.' Many times have I uttered similar words in a London Pub.The locations were so real, you could smell and tasted them - I grew up in such a places and in the same period as the Boy Spider - every single and highly accurate detail brought my childhood memories rushing back.The story is real - events like the critical event in this film really did happen and still do.For international readers, England from the late 70's onwards adopted a 'Care in the Community' programme and every city and major town has halfway houses, like the one portrayed in this film, where newly released inmates of mental institutions are ordinarily just dumped to fend for themselves.This film is nothing short of a Masterpiece - the real pity is that it won't appeal to a wider international audience.", 'I loved this film! The novel that is based on, must have a lot of Freud psyche theories, because the film just reflects it. And in such a perfect manner. Cronenberg has reached a point where he has got a mature talent.It is a brilliant exploration of the Unconscious, of The Edipus Complex, and of Guilt. Cronenberg does for The Edipus Complex here, what Lynch did for The Nightmare in "Mullholland Dr." We really get into Gleg "Spider"\'s mind. And it\'s very terrifying and disturbing inside. Not pretty at all.The cast did an outstanding job. All my praises should go to Fiennes, and especially to Miranda Richardson who plays three different characters with a master talent. She\'s living prove that there\'s no justice at the Oscars.If you study psychiatry or psychology go and see it! It\'s a must see. If you love cinema, go and see it also. One of the year\'s best.', "wow this film was boring. its only on for ninety minutes as well. i love long drawn out films but this shorter film really bored me. i actually gave this film a second viewing hoping i would find something interesting but no luck.i'm not a huge fan of David Cronenbergs work. i find him to make good and bad films... this film to be one of his worst. i'm quite a big fan of both Ralph Fiennes and Gabriel Byrne but just couldn't feel for them in this.i dunno if its just me that thinks this film is boring seeing as though its had a lot of good reviews. still, i'm keeping to my word. avoid this film if you don't wanna go sleep...... 3/10..........j.d Seaton", 'warning Spoilers!!!!!!!!!!!! Brilliant adaptation of Patrick McGrath\'s novel.  Having taught the novel myself for a literature class, I can understand the hostility of some of the audience towards the film.  This is not a work with an ending, much less a happy ending.  The proof is in the aesthetics of this film, pretty much as what you see in the novel.  Of course, a work like this film cannot be viewed with an expectation of a classic plot, character, or physical space.I, myself, was astounded at the rawness of emotion conveyed by Fiennes, particularly when he revisits the garden shed area.  What we see is the truth of the anguish of loss "Spider" is feeling, whether or not the traumatic events were real or imagined.  Cronenberg\'s use of shadows and grays effectively capture the mood of the novel.  Further, Fiennes transformation into Spider is almost wholly dependent on manipulation of his body towards the camera. Considering Cronenberg\'s fascination with manipulation of the flesh, it comes as no surprise to me to see how madness is conveyed through the corporeal, as opposed to rhetoric.  Both Miranda Richardson and Gabriel Byrne deliver brilliant performances as "doubled" characters; Richardson made her transformation into the black-toothed whore believable.  Byrne was absolutely frightening as the murderous, licentious drunk.  Could this be the beast lurking beneath the  grimace of many a man married too long to the same job and woman? (Byrne is finally moving beyond the sexy actor phase and becoming much more convincing--the visible lines of age and paunch are put to brilliant use).  Both the novel and the film strongly suggest Spider\'s "splitting" of his parents\' identities in order to accommodate his inability to accept the complexity of his parents, particularly his mother, as sexual beings.  Cronenberg\'s direction puts the Madonna/Whore dichotomy in full view.This is not a film that should be viewed with a light heart; nor should it be seen just once.  I was sorely disappointed that it did not achieve not even one Golden Globe or Oscar nomination, but then, this is not a film intended for mass consumption or for promotion of the dominant paradigm of family or heterosexual desire.  I applaud the release of this film, and I hope to see more of Cronenberg, Fiennes, Richardson, and Byrne working together (maybe not at the same time, depending on the text).', 'When David Cronenberg directs a film, he gives you the assumption like you know him only to to find out at the last minute that he caught you off guard. Here in "Spider", he perfectly created a thriller with so many twists it would make Alfred Hitchcock green with envy. It truly is a film that you could easily get invested into and keeps you glued to seat in its entire duration.In the opening scene, we see passengers getting off the train who looks like they know where they want to accomplish whatever is on their busy agendas. These civilians would rather be anywhere than loitering around a train station. We watch these individuals progressively pour out of the train all the way up to the very last person as he shyly and slowly get off the train. Here we are introduced, to a mentally disturbed gentleman named Dennis Cleg (Ralph Fiennes) whom everyone refers to as "Spider".While everyone\'s rushing off, Spider takes his time, collecting his items he clutches dearly to him which includes a cylindrical candy tin with possessions inside wrapped up into a sock stuffed in his trousers and carries on after everyone\'s gone.Along the way, Spider picks up other assorted items along the way as he walks in the rain as he enters into a halfway house for the special needs who could walk in and out whenever they feel pleased. The patients are under the supervision of the well-meaning Mrs. Wilkinson (Lynn Redgrave) even though the residents think she\'s a cruel tyrant. The resident is not far from where Spider grew up and the horrid memories from his past continues to haunt him.Spider reminisces the time he was an introverted little boy (Bradley Hall) living with his sweet mother (Miranda Richardson) and his always inebriated, philandering father (Gabriel Byrne). His father\'s favourite hangout is at the Dog and Beggar where he\'s friendly towards a vulgar blonde hussy named Yvonne who seems attracted to him.If I give too much away I\'m spoiling it all for you. What I will tell you is that the manifestations in his mind are not entirely real. Back to the present, Spider, hidden in his room, often keeps a plethora of notes that are written indecipherable that only he could comprehend. He often smell gas and is very protective about his domains from any incoming intruders. Fiennes truly shines in his performance combining the quirks and tics we get a better understanding of where he\'s coming from. Richardson is memorable in her performance as his mother and has great scenes.The acting may be mesmerizing, the life of the party is to director David Cronenberg. He\'s done several great classics like "Dead Ringers", but this film he has truly outdid himself. But he didn\'t come to the party alone. His usual alums joined in including his sister, costume designer Denise Cronenberg, cinematographer Peter Suschitzky and composer Howard Shore. The film\'s pastiche has a nostalgic vibe similar to the silent film era. The atmosphere is just pure gold. From the opening credits to the closing scenes every shot is done in detail.Spider is the character that stands alone from everyone and his at times incoherent mutterings brings this character to life. This compliments quite well to the settings of a darker side of London that has not aged one bit."Spider" is a mystery film that isn\'t really about solving crime scenes, but about special case trying to piece together images of his past in the wrong direction. Spider\'s problem solving is executed in a non-linear fashion but in a rather piece-by-piece pattern almost like solving the complex puzzle or the web of strings he has stretched that he performed in his youth and adulthood. But through it all we\'re never tired of following this sad soul in his journey as he\'s searching for the truth.', "Directed by the ultra-brilliant intellectual David Cronenberg , written by Patrick McGrath.Ralph Fiennes plays a newly released into the community from a psychiatric hospital, to a residential care facility in his hometown In England where he grew up. Needless to say he is very eccentric and very damaged. He has many many notes that he hides and refers to, mainly stories in great detail about his past as a child. Like the main character in Ingmar Bergman's Wild Strawberries film, Fiennes' character revisits key sites and moments of where he grew up as a boy and his childhood overall. Whether he summons them in the flesh or more likely vividly recalls moments reliving (like peeping through the window of his childhood home and knowing/remembering verbatim what was said back then), projections (maybe at times hallucinations?) of his childhood memories and he fills in the rest in his morbid investigation. He uncovers the main event that he witnesses that made him traumatized and what he is in present middle-aged time/age. This is a poignant movie...cerebral without heavy mystery, hence digestible by most. A criminally overlooked classic psychological poltergeist of an existential film. Does he heal /grt redeemed or not then becomes the mystery.The DVD and blu ray editions of this movie are hard to get...hopefully the fine folk at the criterion collection will put this out, restored in 4k even. They've put out a few of Cronenberg's films already...", 'Really a challenging try you should do! Why i called like that, because of when the movie started, you feel how a movie can be so slow pacing. When lots of mumblings leaking from the Ralph\'s mouth, you can ask yourself where i am and what i\'m doing here? But you should wait till the end come out for sure. This is a completely different movie experience which made me speechless.Looking for easy entertaining like an action flick or a comedy, do not try this one!!! But if you look for a movie as an art and science, you should catch this one. When i said "art and science", i mean how a movie can be literary and can be a medical experience also.Btw, i have to point the tag-line of the Spider which is one of the best tag-line i\'ve ever seen. When the end came, i felt the depth of the sadness of the spider.Great acting and directing!!!', "Shockingly, Mr DAVID LYNCH AND HIS JURY HAS IGNORED ONE OF THE MOST DARING, CREATIVE, AND ORIGINAL FILM THAT CANNES PROPOSED THIS YEAR IN OFFICIAL COMPETITION.Cronenberg has achieved, with Spider, what he has always been looking for throughout his oeuvre, and at times managed to catch a glimpse of, that is to say, entering literally the psyche of a man (woman) from the very first to the very last second of a film, without giving us a single chance to escape it, be it for a second. Spider is a melancholic, desperate attempt at reconciling the terrors and traumas of somebody's past, through the use of diegetical distortions, double personae on screen (schizophrenia), an incredible art direction, not to mention the cathartic and hypnotic music of Howard Shore (surely one of his best composition ever). Ralph Fiennes, as a mutic  and hallucinatory wanderer, gives an astonishing performance, proving, once more, how infinite and multifaceted his acting possibilities are. Miranda Richardson, in a challenging and difficult double role,confirms that she is among the very best actresses of her generation. Cronenberg has, for the first time ever, gotten rid of his usual visual, organic special effects all for the best. His minimalist and yet compelling direction focuses mainly around his main character, wandering in Northern London no man's lands, or enclosed in his claustrophobic bedroom, compiling notes like a lunatic on a notebook to ensure that something of the original trauma of his childhood (and I shall not reveal anything here) could come out directly from his distorted consciousness on paper. More than a movie about schizophrenia, SPIDER is the ultimate account of man's solitariness on earth and on the near chimera of sorting out one's present through the confrontations with a traumatic past. Psychoanalysis may help, but in the end,  a lost soul is  a lost soul indeed. A very dark  and desperate vision of the human condition, but it takes a lot of courage and cinematic genius to depict it like CRONENBERG does without being pedantic or self-indulgent.THIS WAS FAR AHEAD MY PALME D'OR FOR THIS YEAR'S COMPETITION IN CANNES.I'll write more about it shortly.", 'This was an excellent film that I am anxious to see again.  It was compelling from beginning to end with virtually no weak spots.  The cast was incredibly strong with outstanding performances from all.  I was particularly intrigued by the scenes between Gabriel Byrne and Miranda Richardson.', 'Cronenberg is one of my favorite directors and I anxiously awaited this film. Because I live in a culturally-deprived area, I thought I would have to wait for the DVD. To my surprise it was booked in a theater in the Cleveland area recently, and I got to see it. This movie will leave you awestruck. Go see it!', 'For people who care about cinema, this is not to be missed. Though viewers and critics alike continue to try and pidgeon hole this as a "care in the community" picture solely about a schizophrenic, Cronenberg claims otherwise. To him, and to this viewer, this one\'s about the human condition and the stories we have to tell ourselves to protect us from the often more harrowing truth. What really stands out here is Cronenberg\'s masterful, seamless composition that frames Spider\'s world and his mind--the camera subtly and effortlessly moves from one dimension to the other. McGrath\'s adaptation of his own work is a marvel of film storytelling--it\'s all action and what dialogue there is, is spare, like the fragments of a distant memory or a story that is constantly returned to and revised, distilled down to its very essence. Richardson deserves a lot of credit and serves Cronenberg without flaw, very much the same way that Irons did in Dead Ringers. On the first viewing, Fiennes isn\'t a standout--this isn\'t a star turn. Everything he does is in service to the story. There is no climatic emotional outburst that we\'ve come to expect in mainstream filmmaking--it\'s all in the story. And none of it is as simple or schematic as critics make this sound--they\'re far too jaded to appreciate what a heady mix this really is. The score by Howard Shore is notable as well--in fact, the artistry is compelling all around. It\'s time to stop fooling around with Scorsese and nitwits like Spielberg and Ron Howard and recognise Cronenberg as the master of contemporary cinema that he is. As close to perfection as cinema gets--it will haunt you. Don\'t miss.', 'It took me a few minutes to get into Spider\'s tone, it being something that seemed a lot more European in pace and tone (i.e. little to no dialog, a steady control of the camera on his subject, the title character, played by Ralph Fiennes). But once I got hooked in, it turned out to be one of David Cronenberg\'s most rewarding efforts. Rewarding, however, not in the sense of his more notorious horror films, but in the way that a splendid Freudian character study unfolds, in a manner that is most striking because of the layers and unpredictability of the structure of the story.It\'s an experiment in point of view, where the main character, an ex-mental institution patient, goes in and out of fantasy and memory, with a double layer of what he saw as a child and what he had as a twisted Oedipal fantasy as partial (or maybe likely at best) reality, turned into a nightmare, and then with himself becoming part of this memory/fantasy/nightmare as a dual reality with his time staying at a halfway home. It\'s not an easy venture, but somehow Cronenberg and writer Patrick McGrath, uses the schizophrenic perspective of the character to gage the audience into his perpetual crisis of re-living the past and piecing together what happened between his father, mother, and a "tart" of sorts.It\'s a risk that ends up paying off so well because of the dedication to the mood of every scene, however minute in scope, as every dip into Dennis/Spider\'s notebook of scribbled gibberish and every trace of memory or view into what was not really (or was it) seen outside of his perspective as a child and every walk along the old neighborhood brings out pieces of a puzzle that build and build to something terrifying, not just because of the "I want to see what happens next" mode, but because one can\'t be sure which point of view, which layer, will turn out as the real one. It\'s starkly simple: a young boy witnesses the strained tensions between his mother and father, or what he sees it to be so, with a level of distrust built in one night when seeing a "tart", or rather a prostitute (Miranda Richardson), who starts to have an affair with his father (Gabriel Byrne), leading to a scene where the father does the unthinkable- murder- on his mother. He brings home Yvonne home as Dennis\'s \'new\' mother, but is it? This side of the story would be disturbing enough, but Cronenberg compounds this with Spider as an adult becoming apart of these childhood scenes, a silent and sometimes quietly mumbling observer of himself as a child, but more significantly himself seeing what went on between his father, Yvonne, and his mother. It may be easy by film\'s end to pinpoint \'this is how that went down, and here\'s what he really saw, or imagined he saw\', but it\'s not that easy pondering over the criss cross of duality in Dennis/Spider, and what this connects with to the influence of women in his life. There\'s a brief scene where Dennis walks in on his mother trying on a gown to impress his father, and he runs away sort of startled. And then there\'s the moment when Yvonne flashes her breast to Dennis in the bar, as he walks away kind of stunned. These are two factors, I think, that act as subtle agents of sexual manipulation in his uneven frame of mind (and he is, after all, on the precipice of puberty), which leads then to how he sees his father, who is a drunk who goes out most nights to the pub to escape his home-life. Once the murder scene takes place and finishes, there\'s a look on Dennis\'s face when his father brings his \'new\' woman home, and even before she says something meant to trigger on his new state of revenge and loneliness there\'s a look in his eyes and face as if he\'s already convinced something is totally wrong here. But perception in memory, of the most perverted yet quintessentially Freudian fantasy, in a man is the subject here, and it\'s a masterstroke of storytelling and character building to see how Spider develops along the lines of a thriller that keeps you guessing based solely on what is certain, uncertain, or both at the same time.It\'s also, aside from being a rich experiment on a man trapped in a state of mind formed mainly, and continuing ever so strongly, from a horrible familial trauma, extremely well shot (many scenes are like perfect little photos of dank small-town English discontent) and exceptionally performed by Fiennes, who never deviates from this tortured, rarely coherently communicative soul. It\'s scary almost to see how far Fiennes reveals the fragmentation without going ever into a goofy display of "hey, I\'m crazy". With his crooked hair, many layers of shirts, and his stilted walk carrying along his warped scribblings, Dennis is crazy but not the kind that can be pegged as "this is what he is and how he became." It\'s not as clear-cut as that, and Fiennes goes deep enough into this guy\'s warped mind-set- as Cronenberg does himself, curiously enough, without a narrator- that he contributes to the layers already in the script. Supporting players too contribute strongly, like Byrne and Richardson (in a dual-role in the great tradition of Vertigo), as people conditioned by their drudgery English environment, and by Spider himself. There\'s even a couple of moments of dry comedy from John Neville as mental patient, with observations absurd and dead-on (the shirts).Spider grows slowly and with the intellectual stamina of a fantastic piece of psychological theater, and with the emotional dissonance and tortured heart of Cronenberg at his very best. It\'s a definite \'not-for-all-tastes\' picture, but for those open to the challenges that flow from the premise it\'s something truly impressionable.', 'This is a bit of a departure for David Cronenberg in some ways, it seemed to be more grounded in a more "daily realism" mode as opposed to some of the morereality-fantasy movies of the past. Yet, in many ways, that makes this movie all the more intense, because there is little of the fantasy to keep it at an arm\'s length.It\'s a great thriller, in the style of a "Momento". Very stylish in it\'s way, and a fine understated soundtrack by Howard Shore. The DVD has a set of 3 featurettes with Cronenberg and cast commenting onthe movie. Don\'t skip these, you\'ll enjoy the additional perspective they provide. Cronenberg also provides an audio track commentary for the movie itself.I really enjoyed this movie. The best  description would be Mobius Strip, and that will make sense after you watch this fine film.', "I was lucky enough to see a screening of this in Queens, where David Cronenberg spoke about the film afterwards. He may be the most intelligent filmmaker working today. This is such an incredibly complex film, with so many levels of interpretations and ambiguity, which most  great films offer an audience. The acting is first-rate and Oscar-worthy in a literal sense, not a bulls*** Hollywood sense; the composition of the shots is beautiful; the story is flawless and engaging; the production design is perfect - I could go on, but you get the picture. What's unfortunate is so many critics are discussing this film as one about schizophrenia, which it really isn't, nor was it meant to be. As it turns out, it is an excellent representation of the schizophrenic experience. But Cronenberg intended it to be representational of the human condition, with all its mysteries, uncertainties and existential anxieties. What was never an uncertainty, however,  is Cronenberg's skillful mastery of delivering genius."]], 'runtime': '1h 38m', 'title': 'Spider'}, 'imdb')] 10.118253574967524 
[(<Hit {'casts': 'Jacob Jarek,Calle Marthin,Sol Bondy,Hayedeh Safiyari,Fred Burle,Peter Possne,Lina Nordqvist,Pascal Caucheteux,Eva Åkergren,Vincent Maraval,Ali Abbasi,Zar Amir Ebrahimi,Nadim Carlsen,Martin Dirkov,Sara Fazilat,Olivia Neergaard-Holm,Ditte Milsted,Arash Ashtiani,Grégoire Sorlat,Nima Akbarpour,Zahra Amir Ebrahimi,Olivier Père', 'content': 'In HOLY SPIDER, we follow family man Saeed as he embarks on his own religious quest -- to "cleanse" the holy Iranian city of Mashhad of immoral and corrupt street prostitutes. After murdering several women, he grows ever more desperate about the lack of public interest in his divine mission.', 'directors': 'Ali Abbasi', 'genres': ' Crime Drama Mystery & thriller', 'id': '889699', 'release_date': '', 'reviews': ['It’s the overly weighty investigative parts of this film that drag it down. Amir-Ebrahimi gives a similarly strong performance as the lead investigator, however these scenes lack the intoxicating atmosphere and visual creativity of when Saed is involved. Original Score: 3/5', "An interpretative and conceptual duel between murderer and persecutor, abuse of power and freedom, enthroned machismo and women's rights... [Full review in Spanish]", 'It seems almost too horrific to believe (and to watch) but it’s based on a true story... Original Score: 3/4', 'For the most part, Holy Spider is an engrossing thriller that succeeds at not losing steam when focusing on those genre elements. Abbasi intended for it to be an unconventional film that exposes the patriarchal beliefs that are deeply ingrained in Iran... Original Score: B-', 'It’s guilty of the very misogyny it’s criticizing.', 'Holy Spider is a dark, atmospheric character study of one of the most difficult humans to sympathise with.', "A raw portrait of the horrific world of prostitution in a country where women's lives are worthless. [Full review in Spanish]", 'As brilliantly portrayed by Amir-Ebrahimi and [Mehdi] Bajestani, Holy Spider boasts an investigator/villain duo for the ages.', 'Ali Abassi follows up his indie hit BORDER with this serial killer drama that looks at the rot in his native Iran. With compelling performances and enough twists to keep things moving, it’s ... sure to generate plenty of fans for this fine filmmaker.', 'Abbasi films the murders of his protagonist in gruesome detail to make his incoming fate even more ironic. [Full review in Spanish]', 'A film that never abandons the modes of its thriller genre. [Full review in Spanish]', 'Profoundly charged.[Full review in Spanish]', 'It seems Abbasi got caught between the social righteousness dictates of the “message movie” and pure amorality of what, disturbingly so, often makes for great genre cinema. Original Score: C+', 'Very few films can leave as much of a visceral impact as Holy Spider does. Original Score: 8/10', 'An utterly vile but effectively reprehensible performance from Mehdi Bajestani as the remorseless murder also assists in elevating this beyond the standard cliches of serial killer films. Original Score: 3/5', 'What’s more terrifying than the depictions of misogynistic violence is how the film manages to portray the feeling of absolute ease with which the killer could move in the world, that big and important parts of Iranian society support him on his mission Original Score: B+', 'A brutally effective thriller. Original Score: 8/10', 'The whole film is pitched between a howl of rage and a gasp of disbelief. Original Score: 5/5', 'An intense and gripping dramatization that, a few liberties apart, does justice to a disturbing true story. Original Score: 4/5', 'Holy Spider is an outraged, indignant and somewhat obvious work.'], 'runtime': ' 1h 55m', 'title': 'Holy Spider'}>, 'tomato')] 7.951333005836052 
[(<Hit {'casts': 'Emilia Clarke,Sam Claflin,Janet McTeer', 'content': "A girl in a small town forms an unlikely bond with a recently-paralyzed man she's taking care of.", 'directors': 'Thea Sharrock', 'genres': 'Drama,Romance', 'id': '315635', 'rating': 7.4, 'release_date': '2017', 'reviews': [], 'runtime': '1h 46m', 'title': 'Spider-Man: Homecoming'}>, 'imdb')] 6.856347415124496 
[(<Hit {'casts': 'Nuno Leal Maia,Raul Julia,Herson Capri,Wally Badarou,William Hurt,Milton Gonçalves,Hector Babenco,Antonio Petrim,José Lewgoy,Nildon Parrente,Francisco Ramalho Jr.,Rodolfo Sanchez,Patricio Bisso,Felipe Crescenti,Mauro Alice,Denise Dumont,Clóvis Bueno,Leonard Schrader,John Neschling,Manuel Puig,Sonia Braga,David Weisman', 'content': 'In a prison cell somewhere in Latin America, two very different men warily confront each other. Molina (William Hurt) is first seen wrapping his head in a towel, in the shape of a turban, while Valentin (Raul Julia), bearded and classically macho in appearance, watches with a mixture of fascination and revulsion. During the time spent together, the two men come to understand and respect each other.', 'directors': 'Hector Babenco', 'genres': ' Drama', 'id': '11703', 'release_date': ' Jul 22, 2008', 'reviews': ['There’s a lot going on in Kiss of the Spider Woman, and though at bottom it is little more than a variant of two-guys-in-stir, it is so well made and ultimately so tender that it is likely to find a large American audience.', 'To understand its place in queer cinema history, and to understand what the world lost with the passing of Hurt and Julia, give it a watch. Prepare to get stuck in this spiderweb. Original Score: 3/4', "Juliá's character is terse and eruptive, simultaneously intrigued and hateful of his cellmate. The script, based on a novel by Manuel Puig, is full of wicked lines.", 'The impermanency of love, the perseverance of beliefs, and the escapism and fantasy of the production are just as potent today. Original Score: 7/10', 'William Hurt gives probably the best male performance of the year as Molina in quite possibly the best film of the year, Kiss of the Spider Woman; and honey, he plays a queen.', 'Spider Woman is a stunning achievement: it seduces us into its web with a whiff of camp and, without ever losing its irony, drops us into a vortex of pain and love.', 'The performances, by turns, smolder, ignite and explode in this haunting, highly original drama.', '... a flaccid gabfest from beginning to end that manages to both undermine politics and trivialize art.', 'A bold and brassy classic that challenges social and political norms in a magnificent manner. Original Score: 4/5', "Babenco's film blends ideology with drama and betrayal for a tale as intellectually rewarding as it is passionate. Original Score: 7.5/10", "Argentine writer Manuel Puig's book Kiss of the Spider Woman has a theme that endures throughout all its various incarnations: that of human dignity and compassion surviving within a society that denies it. Original Score: 4/4", 'Explores the rapture and torture of desire, and the tension between harsh reality and escapist fantasy. [DVD] Original Score: 3.5/4', 'Centering on the camaraderie in prison between gay window-dresser and Marxist radical, the film is schematic, and the recreations of old movie scenes are uneven, but the acting is good. Original Score: B', 'Original Score: 4/5', 'Original Score: 5/5', 'Bold and touching performances by William Hurt and Raul Julia. Original Score: 4/5', 'Original Score: 3/5', 'Original Score: 2/5', 'Original Score: 5/5', 'Original Score: 5/5'], 'runtime': ' 1h 59m', 'title': 'Kiss of the Spider Woman'}>, 'tomato'), ({'casts': 'William Hurt,Raul Julia,Sônia Braga', 'content': 'A gay man and a political prisoner are together in a prison. The gay man narrates the stories of two fake movies and his own life.', 'directors': 'Hector Babenco', 'genres': 'Drama', 'id': '11703', 'rating': 7.3, 'release_date': '1985', 'reviews': [['"She, uh...well, she\'s something a little strange, that\'s what you notice, that she\'s a woman not like all the others." The mix of fantasy and reality in this movie is very unique for English-language films, and the actors make both the fantasy and reality very believable. Anyone who has ever lived in Latin America knows that this mix is part of everyday life there, and that it also makes everyday life there more interesting (and probably more melodramatic.) "...lost in a world she carries deep inside her... but surrounded by luxury!" This is the "battle cry" of the movie, and for the next two hours the viewer is carried on a path towards redemption by way of deception, remorse, and desperation. It will be up to the viewer to decide whether the ending is happy, or sad, or simply inevitable.', "While many like Hector Babenco's brilliant, raw 'Pixote' better, I find his deeply emotional portrait of two lost souls surviving together in a South American prison cell even more riveting. The two towering performances – William Hurt's feminine gay storyteller, and Raul Julia's angry but frail (emotionally and physically) leftist are by far the best work either has done on film.The intricacies of their slowly evolving relationship are complex, powerfully moving, and sometimes disturbing, And while probably 60% of the film takes place in one room, the film never feels like a play. It's always cinematic. A special film that holds up to repeated viewings.", 'This is in the top drawer of movies ever made to date. It is flawless, a work of art in which the whole canvas is filled with colour and richness, and the true meaning of the movie gradually unfolds through a harrowing course to a powerful, moving finale. Acting and direction are all superb, and in my opinion the placing of "the spider woman" as the central icon of the movie is sheer genius, made complete by the casting of Sonia Braga, a unique beauty. The final scene with the death of William Hurt\'s character, the unfolding of the last petal, reaches out and grabs our heart, not unlike the final words of "Chinatown" when Nicholson\'s sidekick takes him aside with "Forget it Boss, its Chinatown".', 'Very unusual movie, even for today. The main idea of the movie is that even in the darkest environment imagination and love bring humanity.Brilliant acting of William Hurt - he got an Oscar for this role.', 'It was a rare window of opportunity for me at the time, to catch a few glimpses of the brutal reality - what would happen to an outsider - whether a homosexual or a political prisoner - in another country like Brazil.The Spiderwoman trapped in a web at the opening has haunted me even decades after watching the film. What was she doing there? Why did she stay on the web perhaps of her own making? Why did she not break free? Was she stuck forever? Was she actually safer in her own prison than the world outside?The film certainly showed us a side of South America to us in Hong Kong at the time, a time when most people were fretting over the 1997 handover, whether to break away to another country, which country.Every country, every place has a story of its own to tell.', "This movie grew on me...when I first saw it, it was nothing special; however, after a some days bits of the dialogue would come back to me. The two men, Molina and Valentin are very different, but they learn from each other. At the end, I feel that both take each other's strengths. Molina, the effeminate homosexual stands up for himself and takes a political stand. Valentin, allows himself to love something else besides his political cause.", "This movie is so well acted and the drama involved has got to be seen to be believed. At first the story seem quite strange, if not surreal. However this is only on the surface as the movie's stories and other reflections shows the emotional and actual incidents which are happening in reality. The movies are use in a clever way to enhance the main drama by contributing to it. This movie overall shows that manipulation can be very subtle and extremely dangerous. This is by far one of the best thrillers ever made because it is so neat and clever. The images have hidden depth in which the viewer needs to concentrate to understand, but once you understand you can appreciate this movie. This is a thinking person's movie involving sexual conduct and fantasies, while there is a growing will to not only escape literally but within oneself and the ongoing struggle to change ideas and ideological positions. If this review does not make sense, the reason for this is because I don't want to spoil any element of this movie and its dream like qualities. This is not a must see, rather seeing it is a must.", '"Spider Woman", although an emotionally draining film, is a true classic. Right from the first scene, you feel the frustration of Valentin and Molina, both outcasts of society, yet for very different reasons.The acting is nothing less than extraordinary. William Hurt as the lonely homosexual, Molina, the late Raul Julia, as the stern, but deeply caring political prisoner, Valentin, and Sonia Braga, who takes on three different roles, including the title role, and plays them all brilliantly, are what makes this filmso great.Although Hurt deservingly won the Oscar for Best Actor, the same consideration should have been given to Julia and Braga for their contribution.If you\'ve seen it, see it again....if you haven\'t, I highly recommend you do.', "Although I'm an extreme Raul Julia fan and have enjoyed his individual performances many times over, (I've enjoyed Presumed Innocent through umpteen viewings) Kiss Of The Spider Woman is just too intense and upsetting for me to ever watch again. Julia's hard core portrayal as a journalist being tortured for names of fellow conspirators is splendidly heartbreaking. William Hurt as a gay man imprisoned for sexual deviancy gives a complex and nuanced portrayal. I love movies about a character's redemption (such as Kevin Spacey in American Beauty) so this film was right up my alley. The metamorphoses that the 2 cell mates go through as they learn to accept each other is profound. William Hurt's character's deception is two-fold and a great example of having your cake, or ham, and eating it, too. Raul Julia's slow acceptance and eventual appreciation of his gay cell mate and the fantasy world he now resides in, becomes tragic and gut wrenching. One cannot miss what one has never had and Hurt's character's departure leaves behind a cold empty void. The ultimate fate of the reluctant companions left me sobbing. Raul Julia's character is back in the stark reality of brutality with no respite of fantasies woven as tightly as his former cell mate's silken items while Hurt's imagined fairytale ending is destroyed with quick deadly precision. Because the film is so well done, from the superb acting (Hurt's Oscar could have easily and rightly gone to Julia) to the brilliant set design and on point direction, it makes the bleak ending that much harder to watch. I would have given Kiss of the Spider Woman a 10 but deducted 1 point for my swollen eyes and runny nose at the film's end.", '"Kiss of the Spider Woman" is not your typical film. Similar to the novel of the same name which was banned in Buenos Aires for many years, "Spider Woman" is a non-linear story which begins as a character study of two polar opposites who are reluctant prison-mates in a Brazilian prison. William Hurt offers a stellar performance for which he won the Academy Award for Best Actor as Molina, a troubled homosexual who also exhibits transsexual tendencies. His prison-mate is Valentin, a journalist who entered into an underground political movement and was incarcerated as a political prison. By contrast, Molina\'s crime was engaging in a sexual relationship with a boy.The film begins with Hurt\'s voice-over as Molina while the camera pans above the hideous accommodations of the prison cell. The voice describes a character and a scene from an old romantic European movie probably made in the 1930\'s. For emphasis, Molina donning a decorated sheet drapes a towel over his head, re-enacting the scene of the heroine putting on her towel after a bath like a turban. The film then cuts to the actual film being described showing a dark-haired actress who appears like a cross between Gloria Swanson and Marlene Dietrich. We are now in the middle of a bygone era of glamorous film. The film in the present-moment is in color while the movie being described is in black and white, often using soft focuses and soft lighting for romantic effect. On several occasions, the present-moment story is halted and the older film is shown on-screen. One of the interesting contrasts is how the older movie exhibits plush settings, beautiful costumes, and attractive leads. The real setting of the prison is damp, dirty and just about as unromantic as a slimy villain.During different moments, Valentin snaps at Molina, occasionally puzzled and sometimes infuriated with Molina\'s simplistic view of reality which seems caught up in these old movies. At one point during one of Molina\'s movie descriptions, Valentin realizes the movie is some kind of Nazi propaganda film. There are resisters to the Nazi regime who are portrayed as less-than-human conniving degenerates. However, Molina is oblivious to this aspect, simply caught up with the heroine and her lover, Werner, a member of the Nazi high command. Molina cares nothing about the film\'s rhetoric but only the romantic interests and identifies strongly with the female lead. Several times he admonishes Valentin for "ruining the moment" with his political talk. One of the elements which makes the story interesting is the parallel between Valentin\'s predicament as a political prisoner and the film described by Molina which has fascist overtones.Much of the film is about the relationship between the prison-mates as much as a character study. Occasionally their relationship is strained and escalates into near-violent confrontation as Valentin finds superficiality with his prison-mate who is constantly moving and gesturing like the opposite sex. At one point, Valentin rages at him "You sound just like a...!" to which Molina responds "Say it, just like a woman." But over time, a strange friendship of mutual trust and respect evolves between the two men, and Valentin finds there is more to Molina than at first meets the eye.A very different and interesting film with absolute first-rate performances by the two leads but not for all tastes and certainly not for those uninterested in material which explores homosexuality. Part of the film\'s rhetoric is about showing aspects of homosexual sensibility. Valentin begins to learn and at one point appreciate his prison-mate\'s sexual dilemma. Part of Molina\'s ultimate quandary is that he is more than a homosexual: he feels much like a member of the female sex and longs for a "real man", not just a homosexual male. But "real men", by Molina\'s definition, want real women, and he can never satisfy this desire. So he escapes into romantic films and pretends he is the star.', 'Raul Julia and William Hurt play Valentin Arregui and Luis Molina, cell-mates in a South American jail. Valentin is a political prisoner trying to keep his sanity, and Luis is a gay man with fantasies of Nazis and their beautiful women. These two men are opposites in virtually every way, but are forced to grow to respect each other. Sonia Braga plays the woman in both men\'s fantasies: the "Spider Woman" and the Nazi\'s lover.That\'s the plot, but the movie is really a metaphor for any dictatorship. Obviously, any totalitarian state will imprison political opponents, and from what I know, most tyrants choose to lock up homosexuals. Valentin even tries to make the pro-fascist Luis understand what the Nazis did to gays. Regardless of how the two men eventually view each other, it remains a really good movie.', 'In reading the novel " Kiss of the Spider Woman " written by Manuel Puig I realized very little was omitted from the movie of the same name. Director Hector Babenco has done a remarkable job in transferring the written word to the screen. The story is about two prisoners sharing a secluded cell in some obscure, brutal Brazilian prison. The first individual is Valentin Arregui (Raul Julia) a political prisoner, incarcerated because he belongs to an anti-government group bent on overthrowing the oppressive political regime. The second man is Luis Molina (William Hurt) a homosexual window dresser convicted on a morals charge for having sex with a teenage boy. Together they pass the time saying as little as possible. Luis recounts movies he has seen and relates them to Valentin who criticizes his interpretations. What Val does not know is that Luis is being pressured to reveal details of Val\'s organization. Further, Luis\'s decides to string the warden (Jose Lewgoy) along with requests for special gifts from his mother. The film is a great visual masterpiece and some of the finest acting ever presented. The drama is high lighted by Hurt\'s oral descriptions of the characters which come to light as he relates his recollections. The change of background colors is instrumental for the visual addition to the movie characters and when the audience meets the Spider Woman, (Sonia Braga) we realize a Classic is being enacted. Indeed, this movie is a great tribute to the cast and is sure to become a milestone for fans of Hurt and Julia. Highly recommended to anyone interested in seeing an exceptional film. ****', 'The first indie movie to be Oscar nominated for the Best Movie.A gay and a political prisoner are in a prison. Gay narrates the story of an imaginary movie to the other, in spite his bad interest. He narrates the stories of two different movies mixed with his own life story. The story narration soon becomes a medicine for their loneliness, sadness and pain.To create a beautiful movie within the limitations of space, and budget is almost impossible. Only a creative director can make it possible.William Hurt has given one his best character of his career. As the movie was running out of budget, he refused to receive the pay. He received the Academy Award for the best Actor for his role.', 'The plot behind Kiss of the Spider Woman is much more complex than the almost goofy title would suggest. It\'s not a low budget science fiction film but rather a two man show largely taking place in a small South American prison. Political firebrand Valentin Arregui (Julia) is tossed into a cell for sedition by the government. He\'s angry, brash and ready to die for his beliefs. His bunk-mate Luis Molina (Hurt) is a pederast homosexual who is not exactly inclined to politics. He spends his time retelling in fluid detail, the love story of his favorite movie, an unnamed Nazi propaganda film involving a seductive vamp. What starts out as a rocky relationship soon turns into a quaint and ultimately tragic love story where trust is brought to its limits.Based off a book of the same name written by Manuel Puig, Kiss of the Spider Woman leaves much to the imagination; which is kind of the point. Much of the two main character\'s dialogue tows the line between sub-textual to cryptic and yet so much is said and understood. The stories Molina weaves echo and even foreshadows the events taking place in the isolated prison cell and though the friendship soon leads to something more, the characters are so wonderfully three-dimensional even the most squeamish of audiences won\'t mind tender moments shared between the two male leads.Raul Julia\'s Valentin is head strong and disciplined; trying with all his will to undermine the government\'s ominous authority. Valentin however is sequestered from the rest of the prison population and is never seen with anyone else in the prison except his cell-mate. No doubt them bunking together is meant to be a humiliation to Valentin purported by the prison Warden (Lewjoy). As a result, all of Valentin\'s rage is unfairly released on the kind and loving Molina. William Hurt turns in quite a performance as Julia\'s foil, moving and speaking with a level that moves beyond homosexual archetypes; a progressive thing for 1985. By the end of the film Luis is changed by his relationship with Valentin, so much so that he aids him in his fight not out of a renewed political awakening but out of a need to find worth in life though unrequited love.Kiss of the Spider Woman can be slow at times and suffers from some pedestrian direction by Hector Babenco. In fairness to Mr. Babenco, almost the entire film takes place in one prison cell. I\'d imagine it\'d be hard to fit the two actors, himself, the DP, the AD, the gaffer, the sound mixer, the grip and whatever other crew you\'d need into tiny little cage. Occasionally the camera wonders away from the prison into the expressionistic sets of the film in Molina\'s imagination. Like the characters we get a respite from the imposing prison yet the film simply doesn\'t take enough chances with the idea. Segments featuring the actual "Spider Woman" (Braga) are like watching mediocre Guy Maddin movies; there\'s artistry clearly at work but it\'s abundantly plain there was no budget.Despite this, the film remains an important and interesting little character piece that highlights gay issues and specifically gay love at a time few others did. It\'s a bittersweet, beautiful and haunting tale that shouldn\'t be overlooked despite mediocre sets and evident thrift. The story has since been made into a musical that achieved success on Broadway and London\'s West End which makes sense. A story this universal and audacious shouldn\'t be kept in the confines of a good flick but should be seen in haste in all arty forms.', "I have just fallen in love with William Hurt and Raul Julia after watching this. William Hurt just played a flamboyant gay guy very well and with Raul Julia playing as a tough guy! I found that their friendship and love was very unique together. I actually was really sad and upset that Luis Molina got accidentally shot by the place then left for dead.It was even more sadder to think that they both separated and never saw each other again. I was really hoping they could reunite. You might think it's sick for me to like a pedophile character but it's still, this movie was terrific! I hadn't read the book but I just think again, the movie was excellent.I'm glad that this won an Oscar, not many movies that have Oscars aren't normally that great! This deserves it!", 'Slow-paced but amazingly compelling and moving drama, mainly set in the filthy prison cell of a never-named Latin American dictatorship country. It is here that the flamboyant homosexual Molina shares his escape-fantasies with the idealistic (but heterosexual) revolutionary warrior Valentin. The stories they tell, either coming from Molina\'s vivid imagination or from Valentin\'s struggling past, all feature a similar woman. This primarily Brazilian film is a quintessential piece of artwork. No wild car-chases, gunfights or steamy sex sequences here but you\'ll be fascinated by the strong dialogs, the mesmerizing acting performances and the professional directing skills of Hector Babenco. The growing relationship between the two opposite protagonists is masterfully illustrated and the depressing set-pieces only increase your sympathy for the both of them. "Kiss of the Spider Woman" is the only film I\'ve seen so far that successfully implements a complex structure containing flashbacks as well as dream-sequences - and even film-in-film images \x96 without becoming overly confusing. Raul Julia and William Hurt both deliver their finest performances ever, and the latter righteously got rewarded with an Oscar. A definite must see for every demanding fan of film-making.', "I had this movie with me for a long time but I just wasn't really attracted by its name or poster whatever. I watched it today and was I glad I did. Those who hate this film , they misunderstand it as being a disappointment in the screenplay but I guess they don't understand that it's a William Hurt centric film as Luis Molina as a homosexual guy having a persona of a woman(his crying and giggle as a delicate woman is terrific) imprisoned and forms an unlikely friendship with his cell-mate. I love Taxi Driver for its character study and this film is not far behind. A well made character study. Must watch for those who crave for performances.", "In a South American prison, swishy gay window-dresser William Hurt (as Luis Molina) tries to seduce straight cell-mate Raul Julia (as Valentin Arregui), a political prisoner. At first, Mr. Julia is reluctant. However, by acting out the sexy heroine's role in an old Nazi movie, Mr. Hurt slowly wins his man. But wait... Hurt is offered a change to get out of jail, for which he must consider betraying Julia... This is an hypnotic, fascinating, heartbreaking, and extremely well-spun version of Manuel Puig's original story; by Hurt, Julia, and director Hector Babenco. The ending is open to interpretations beyond the obvious; in my mind, Hurt goes back to escape the confines of life with Julia as the woman of his dreams...********* Kiss of the Spider Woman (5/13/85) Hector Babenco ~ William Hurt, Raul Julia, Sonia Braga, Jose Lewgoy", "Never mind the reviews and narrative of others.Whether you're straight or curvy it makes no difference you'll love this.A classic story and great characters,what else do you want?", 'Reading the other reviews, I see that homophobes have been duly warned about this movie, so I won\'t say anything about the relationship between the two men beyond that it is complex and beautiful.What interests me more for the purposes of this little blurb is that no one has commented on how the "film within a film" (much like the "play within a play" in Hamlet) reflects the actual events unfolding in the prison cell. Molina (William Hurt) is ostensibly retelling his favorite film to entertain Valentin (Raul Julia) and make the time pass more quickly, but he himself admits that he "embroiders" the story to make it more real.  So who is to say if this film exists except in Molina\'s mind, and if it does, what really transpired in the film?  The story about the French woman who is in love with a German officer during World War II, and must decide whether or not to betray him, is an obvious parallel to Molina\'s decision to betray Valentin or not.  Even Molina says that he most identifies with Leni La Maison (Sonia Braga) in this film of his, and it\'s not just because he is a drag queen. It\'s because he has to choose between the man he loves and "patriotism" (in his case, represented by the police/government as well as his ailing mother).This storytelling tactic works brilliantly, in my opinion.  Kiss of the Spider Woman is indeed original, quirky, and a must-see.', 'This film, about two thoroughly different souls turning into each other, is one of the all-time greats. The writing is crisp, the acting is phenomenal, and the story is exquisite. I have read the book in both Spanish and English, seen the musical four times, read the script of the play, and watched this movie over and over again... I recommend it to anyone who wants a true powerhouse drama, not a schmaltzy tearjerker.', "Two very different prisoners—a flamboyant homosexual and a hardened political activist—share the same small cell in a nameless Latin American dictatorship, eventually overcoming their mutual hostility to accept what the other has to offer: compassion on the one hand; a political conscience on the other. The reason for their mutual incarceration only becomes clear after half the film is over, but by then the characters are fully drawn: one yearns for freedom while the other dreams of escape, via intimate narration of his favorite movie plot—a romantic melodrama he doesn't recognize as Nazi wartime propaganda.The plot is developed with gradual precision, unlocking layers within layers of contrasts and parallels. In the end the film is a study in opposites: gay and straight; dignity and exploitation; the freedom of daydreams versus the cold reality of imprisonment. Hurt won a well-deserved Oscar as the gay prisoner, Molina, but Raul Julia is equally fine in the less splashy role (Sonia Braga appears in each of the separate narratives, becoming the unifying link between them).The film itself exhibits surprising freedom and range despite being confined within a prison cell. Remarkably, it's not the least bit claustrophobic, sagging only in the final scenes, outside the prison walls. Sad and touching, this is a brilliant, bittersweet parable of repression: political and otherwise.", 'The film opens the hypocrisy of society and reveals that love beyond beautiful also causes suffering. A classic of the movies that should not be missed.', "The first time I saw this movie it had just been released. The theater was packed and my wife and I ended up sitting in the front row on a wing. I hated the movie. I couldn't understand what all the hoopla was about and it just didn't sit well. My wife and I discussed the movie after wards and she couldn't believe I didn't like it. She liked it a lot. After discussing it I agreed to see it again and not sit in the front row. I quickly discovered I was wrong about the movie. William Hurt and Raul Julia are outstanding. This movie resonated on many different levels that it's hard to describe. The friendship between the two main characters was absolute regardless of their present unfortunate situation. They are two ordinary people thrown together by fate in an extremely difficult situation and they make the best of it. The conflicts going on around them would destroy lesser men. Their reality is bleak, at best, and they find a way to survive. Powerful performances at every level are the order of the day. Sonja Braga is a delightful distraction as real as any fantasy. I can't wait for this movie to come out on DVD!", "Adapted by Leonard Schrader from the Manuel Puig novel of the same name, 'Kiss Of The Spider Woman' is a great film, that has almost everything working for it. Héctor Babenco has directed the film with flourish, and William Hurt's performance as a jailed homosexual is simply exemplary! 'Kiss Of The Spider Woman' is about 2 inmates, their journey through those unforgiving cells and violence. And how they begin to respect each other and how they seek for freedom.'Kiss Of The Spider Woman' is dark and gritty in nature, but beneath all that, it's the story of 2 people. And the adapted Screenplay does full justice to it's characters. Héctor Babenco's direction, as mentioned, has come out with flying colors.As said, William Hurt's performance as a jailed homosexual is simply exemplary. He got all the respect by winning Awards. I personally salute Hurt for his work here. Sonia Braga as Spider Woman does a good job. Raúl Juliá is another actor who leaves a mark.On the whole, 'Kiss Of The Spider Woman' is a winner all the way. Very Strongly Reccmended! Two Thumbs Up!"]], 'runtime': '2h', 'title': 'Kiss of the Spider Woman'}, 'imdb')] 6.735150225126025 
[(<Hit {'casts': 'Eduardo de Gregorio,Marilu Parolini,Roberto Perpignani,Giulio Brogi,Bernardo Bertolucci,Giovanni Bertolucci,Tino Scotti,Pippo Campanini,Franco Di Giacomo,Franco Giovanelli,Alida Valli,Maria Paola Maino,Vittorio Storaro', 'content': "In Italy, Athos Magnani (Giulio Brogi) is the son of an anti-fascist hero who was assassinated three decades earlier. When the dead man's former mistress (Alida Valli) calls him back to his father's hometown, Athos has a number of perplexing, surreal encounters with her and the men who were his father's allies long ago. But were they really allies? As he tries to unravel the mystery of his father's murder, the son is forced to reckon with the nature of compromised ideals.", 'directors': 'Bernardo Bertolucci', 'genres': ' Mystery & thriller', 'id': '42595', 'release_date': '', 'reviews': ["It's an interesting question and, despite the trick ending and other typical Bertolucci touches, it makes a generally engrossing film.", 'Bertolucci has a gift for surrounding a claustrophobic theme with a sense of light and space.', '[A] mesmeric film.', "Bertolucci's superb dramatic thriller packs a powerful punch. Original Score: 5/5", 'Pointedly analytical and lushly abstruse', "Full of mysteries, omens, ambiguities, and signs of incipient madness, and it resolves itself into a riddle that is the cinema's richest homage to all that's remarkable in Borges.", 'Strictly stunning. Original Score: 5/5', 'Original Score: 4/5', "The film's color photography is extraordinarily lovely for, like the conspirators within the film, Bertolucci has a weakness for the purely theatrical effect.", "It's a movie with a beautiful cinematic grace, a way of establishing atmosphere and furthering plot without a lot of talking. Original Score: 3/4", 'Much of it is intriguing and the photography (by Storaro), sometimes evoking the paintings of De Chirico, is memorable.', '[Features] sumptuous visuals and sense of high tragedy.'], 'runtime': ' 1h 40m', 'title': "The Spider's Stratagem"}>, 'tomato')] 6.6139530351275555 
